# INFO474_a1

<h2> US Census Data Visualization </h2>

<p>After deciding to visualize the US census dataset, I scrutinized it and observed two main takeaways; there were two specific years of demographic, and age groups were binned into 5-year segments from 0 years old to 90 years old. I considered on designing straightforward showcase of demographic changes and came up with this question: Which design would be effective to compare the demographic changes associated with different ages over time at a glance? </p>

<p>Before I began to write up the code, I sketched two possible designs on my iPad. The first consideration was a line graph, labeling numbers of people as the y-   axis and ages as the x-axis. The graph consisted of four lines: female population in 1900 and 2000 and male population in 1900 and 2000. The second consideration was a bar graph with the same labeling of x and y-axis. However, it was discernable that the graph was not appropriate for my goal. Four bars would be required for each age group which would result in creating great numbers of bars. While the bar graph seemed arduous to interpret the demographic change, the line graph seemed simple. The line graph was easy to view the demographic change among the different age groups within the same year and compare the flow of the demographics in different sex and year. Therefore, I chose the line graph as my data visualization.</p>

<p>To fulfill my intention, I decided to set different colors for each line and placed legends next to the graph. It seemed that using different colored lines was easy to distinguish instead of putting labels next to the lines accordingly. Regarding consideration of colors, I chose orange and blue as the main colors. I avoided red and green for color blinded people to increase accessibility, and I considered complementary colors to maximize the difference of the colors. I implemented a subtle color difference for each line by utilizing chroma (grouping years) and lightness (grouping sex) while maintaining consistency. For instance, I colored female in 2000 and female in 1900 in orange and light orange, so they have similar colors but different in lightness. I colored male 1900 in light blue so that it can have a consistency with female in 1900. For the scale of the graph, intervals or age group were already given and I scaled population in million for legibility. Additionally, I expanded the space between each interval and enlarged the size of the graph to make the shape of the line more distinctive.
</p>

<p>In terms of drawbacks of my visualization, I used light colors to keep the consistency between genders, but those colors can make two lines seem less important than the others. Generally, dark colors are more noticeable than light colors, so orange and blue seem more visible than light orange and light blue. Another drawback is that when two light-colored lines overlap with each other, it is fairly difficult to view them. It will be a task to find an appropriate color scheme which are discernible while keeping the consistency.</p>
